Use this skill for the tzst
 command-line interface. Default to execution when the user clearly wants a real archive action and the required paths or archive names are already known.
 This skill is CLI-only. If the user is asking about Python code such as from tzst import ...
, treat that as a general Python library or API documentation task instead of using this skill as the main guide.
 When to Use
 Use this skill when the user:
 
 mentions .tzst
 or .tar.zst
 archives
 wants to create, extract, flatten, list, or test a tzst
 archive
 needs help installing tzst
 or choosing CLI flags
 wants machine-readable tzst
 output for scripting or automation
 needs safe conflict handling or extraction filter guidance
 Do not use this skill for generic tar
, zip
, or Python API questions unless tzst
 is actually part of the request.
 Preflight
 
 Check whether tzst
 is available with tzst --version
 or tzst --help
.
 If it is missing, prefer one of these installation paths:
 
 uv tool install tzst
 pip install tzst
 a standalone release binary from https://github.com/xixu-me/tzst/releases/latest when the user does not want a Python installation
 Re-run tzst --version
 or tzst --help
 before doing real work.
 Workflow
 
 Decide whether the request is execution or guidance.
Requests like "archive these files", "extract this backup", "list what is inside", "test this archive", or "install tzst" are execution intent.
 Choose the command that matches the request:
 
 a
, add
, create
 for archive creation
 x
, extract
 for normal extraction with directory structure preserved
 e
, extract-flat
 only when the user explicitly wants flattened output
 l
, list
 for archive inspection
 t
, test
 for integrity checks
 If the user wants to extract only a few members and the member names are uncertain, list first.
 Load references/cli-reference.md
 when you need the command matrix, exact flag names, or copy-paste examples.
 Safe Defaults
 
 Prefer x
 over e
 unless flattening is explicitly requested.
 Keep --filter data
 as the default extraction mode.
 Use --filter tar
 only when the user needs standard tar-style compatibility.
 Use --filter fully_trusted
 only when the user explicitly says the archive source is completely trusted.
 Keep atomic archive creation enabled. Only reach for --no-atomic
 when the user explicitly wants it.
 Prefer --streaming
 for large archives or memory-constrained environments.
 For automation or pipelines, prefer tzst --json --no-banner ...
.
 For automated extraction, require an explicit non-interactive --conflict-resolution
 choice such as replace_all
, skip_all
, or auto_rename_all
.
 Do not combine --json
 with interactive conflict prompting.
 Scripting Notes
 
 Put global flags before the subcommand in examples, such as tzst --json --no-banner l archive.tzst
.
 Use exit codes in scripts: 0
 for success, 1
 for operation errors, 2
 for argument parsing errors, and 130
 for interruption.
 When archive naming matters, tell the user that tzst
 may normalize a creation target to .tzst
 or .tar.zst
.
 Common Mistakes
 
 Using e
 when the user expected the original directory structure to be preserved
 Recommending fully_trusted
 for archives from an unknown or untrusted source
 Forgetting an explicit conflict strategy for non-interactive extraction
 Treating a Python API question as a CLI question
 Guessing flags from tar
 habits instead of checking the bundled reference or the installed CLI help